hello encaustic friends I'm back I have
melted a new medium beeswax
damar varnish you can kind of see the
anxiousness of the thought democracy I
didn't smash him up like I usually do
make a little powder so that it blends
better I just dumped it in from this bag
and then here are the white beeswax
pallets and I poured it in this pot I'm
getting ready to prime some new birch
panels I'm going to have a show in a few
weeks and I want to start some new
pieces I've already got a lot of paint
already in my pots on the floor here
those of you who have seen my videos
know that I've moved and still in the
process of getting used to it but you
can't wait until everything's perfect so
they're on the floor instead of on the
table next to me but the first thing you
have to do is prime the the wood and
these are the birch panels that I have
here these ones all happen to be 14 by
14 inches oh I got my fan up to all my
fans were put up I'm really happy and
there are some older paintings which
you've seen already which will also be
in the show but these are some new
panels and you notice there's black
sides to them
I like the sides of my boards to be neat
so what I do first is I stack them up
and then I spray them on the side with a
matte black spray paint it's easier to
do it now than
afterwards and then afterwards when the
paint is all dripped on a side I just
scrape it off another thing I want to
share with you are my brushes just got a
new box chip brushes all different sizes
3-inch two-inch and one-inch and you
know I go through a lot of brushes those
of you who do encaustic or acrylic go
through a lot of brushes so I get my
brushes from eBay it must be several
boxes of rectangular a file an eBay
store that just sells brushes and you
can do it just go to ebay and put in a
search engine chip brush I got all of
these brushes for some ungodly low price
which means that you know when they get
messed up I don't bother cleaning them I
throw them away also know me know that
I'm not real fussy about that stuff oh
there's a book over here formulas
retainers which is an excellent book has
lots of good formulas no aesthetics just
formulas for encaustic everything and
it's available on Amazon what I want to
show you this is not gonna be a real
long video I just want to show you my
first step because I'm getting ready to
leave the studio now and I want to get
this kind of started before I come back
tomorrow so switch hands since I am
right-handed and just show you what I do
now those of you who know encaustic know
what this is about you have to soak the
wood it's very absorbent you have to
soak the wood with the wax
and I'm going to use one of the wider
brushes so I have as few streaks as
possible and you go over it it's wet
multi rather and you put on it doesn't
matter if it bubbles up or creeks like
ridges because after you put that on and
going in both directions after you put
this on you're going to burn it in with
I use a heat gun over here I set the pot
on the one next to it it's not real easy
to do this while I'm hold the camera
while I'm doing this but I had a little
tripod put the camera on and tell you
truth I didn't like the angle I would
have my daughter hold the camera but
she's busy watching some anime and I
don't want to disturb her this is fine
you can you get the idea that little
mark right there from the bottom of the
pot that's going to disappear all of
this is going to disappear so let's do
one more the whole pot is off the fire
now
so is beginning to set up a little bit
but there's so much molten wax in here
that it's not going to set up that
quickly where I can't dip this brush in
it before I got these big wide brushes I
was using the one-inch ones to go over
it and that's just a waste of time
so we got three you get the idea
I stick the brush back into the pot and
there was already some wax medium that
was in the pot that had the full
complement of the the Marv Arnaz in it I
didn't put any linseed oil in this
mixture I usually do but I didn't this
time for a couple reasons I don't have a
bottle handy and also the pigments that
I use for my encaustic are oil paint
which has the oil in it even if you take
the oil out and with a soak on a
newspaper to get to soak it I prefer to
use that it still has enough oil in it
and I like the colors I can get a more
varied range of colors because the
bright colors and dry pigments are very
expensive and to tell you the truth I'm
not using dry pigments much these days
only because I have respiratory issues
and I don't want to deal with powders in
the air that I can breathe that's what
happens when you get older you start to
worry about things so that's enough I'm
going to say bye-bye and tomorrow I'll
make another one when I get the next
layers on bye